Psychedelic art movement

Description of image:
fisrt image link

Info (Copy pasted | to rewrite)

Intro-Definition: 
Originating in the mid-1960s, Psychedelic Art was a graphic art form that created visual displays inspired by the experience of psychedelic drugs and hallucinations. Also known as psychedelia, artworks created typically featured a full spectrum of vivid colors along with cartoons and animation in order to provoke a type of psychedelic experience when looking at the work. The evolution of Psychedelic Art is considered to be a direct predecessor to the development and subsequent popularity of all imaginative art that is in existence today.
Psychedelic Art refers to all artistic creations emerging from the late 1960s that attempted to portray the inner world of the psyche through incredibly graphic and visual depictions. In doing so, art that appeared to be recreating experiences and hallucinations that were common after ingesting psychedelic drugs such as LSD and psilocybin were known to be “psychedelic”.
The name of the genre made reference to the drugs that were popular within the youth culture at the time of the movement’s peak. Artworks that emphasized incredibly distorted and almost surreal qualities through the use of excessive color were considered to be psychedelic, as they were thought to depict the inner workings of the mind.

History:
The origins of Psychedelic Art are said to relate back to the discovery of LSD by Albert Hofmann in 1943. Hofmann was researching potential derivatives from lysergic acid and began synthesizing LSD, in an attempt to obtain a respiratory and circulatory stimulant that had no repercussions whatsoever on the uterus. After setting the drug aside for a period of time, Hofmann began re-experimenting with the drug and accidentally absorbed a small amount of it, which led to him discovering the potent effects it had. The development of psychedelics allowed artists and poets to explore, with this new form of trippy art being quickly and fully accepted into art communities. This was because artworks stood for more than just mere visual representations of artists’ hallucinatory experiences, as the artworks experimented with numerous visual styles and corporate advertising techniques synonymous with the 1960s. 

Characteristics: 
Artworks made using this Psychedelic aesthetic favored intensely contrasting colors that had the ability to make viewers’ eyes vibrate after looking at the work, which was a clear reference to an LSD trip. The frameless technique of psychedelic drawings also imitated the experience and mind-altering state associated with a high.
Peaking between 1966 and 1972, Psychedelic Art featured many fundamental characteristics that quickly became associated with the style. Most artworks went on to depict a vividly strong color palette typically made up of contrasting colors, along with flamboyant lettering and multicolored swirls. Color juxtaposition became a primary characteristic within Psychedelic Art, as it led to the formation of other optical illusions and somewhat illusive geometric lines.
Psychedelic aesthetic were spirals that seemed kaleidoscopic in nature, concentric circles, paisley patterns, and repetitions of motifs or symbols until a pattern was formed.
1960s Psychedelic Art genre tended to lean more towards the fantastic, abstract, and surrealist side of artistic expression. Extreme detail was paid to the artworks made, which led to the creation of incredibly innovative and groovy typography and hand-letteringstyles. Artists frequently made use of positive and negative spaces within Psychedelic Art, which went on to become another key characteristic of the movement.

Digital Age: 
Psychedelic Art experienced a great revival within the digital age, most notably within the 1990s rave culture. Graphic software began developing at a fast pace, which allowed the digital recreation of psychedelic experiences to become a possibility. Today, nothing stands in the way of artists digitally rendering psychedelic artworks, as unequaled freedom accompanies the ability of image manipulation in the 21st century.
This digital revolution was coined as the “New LSD” trip that had occurred in society, as computers began to reproduce the hallucinatory experiences of artists just as accurately as artists were to do it themselves. The reintroduction of the rave movement in the 1990s fueled the Psychedelic movement through the development of a new digital style of art that took its inspiration from the 1960s Psychedelic post art. The emergence of computer art has enabled an even bigger and more copious expression of psychedelic vision in digital artworks that have since been created. The development of two-dimensional and three-dimensional graphics allowed unparalleled freedom to form when it came to digitally rendered versions of Psychedelic Art, as artists seem to be no longer limited by anything. Suddenly, even amateur artists had access to the technology needed to create digital Psychedelic Art, which broadened the accessibility of the movement entirely.


list of major contributors
Wes Wilson (1937-2020): 
Victor Moscosco (1936-): 
Peter Max (1937-): 
Bonnie MacLean (1939-2020): 
Stanley “Mouse” Miller (1940-): 
Rick Griffith (1944-1991): 
Gary Grimshaw (1946-2014): 
Alex Gray (1953): 


contributors upon whom you will be focusing & doing bios
Wes Wilson
Another influential Psychedelic artist who was considered to be the leading designer of psychedelic posters was American artist Wes Wilson. Best known for his conception of the “psychedelic font” around 1966, which made created letters that appeared to be moving and melting, Wilson is also recognized as one of the Big Five poster artists that experimented with Psychedelic Art during its peak. He is also generally thought of as the Father of Rock Posters.
Working alongside the rest of the Big Five poster group, made up of Alton Kelley, Rick Griffin, Victor Moscoso, and Stanley Mouse, Wilson went on to design some of the most iconic posters within the Psychedelic Art movement. Within his artworks, Wilson made use of a signature style that incorporated loud colors, attention-grabbing images, vibrant typography, and free-flowing block lettering. These elements can be seen in his 1966 rock concert posters made for the Grateful Dead, James Cotton, and Moby Grape.As the best-known designer of psychedelic posters, Wilson created artworks that caused people to stop and stare. His use of block lettering was incredibly difficult to read, with Wilson responding that only those truly embedded within the Psychedelic “tribe” being able to understand it.

Victor Moscosco
Spanish artist Victor Moscoso is a professional graphic designer who is best known for his production of psychedelic rock posters, advertisements, and his involvement in “Underground Comix” in San Francisco throughout the 1960s and 1970s. Moscoso became the first Psychedelic artist to branch into the creation of rock posters, making use of multiple photographic collages in order to create a distinct style. Some of his iconic works include Big Brother and the Holding Company (1967) and The Chambers Brothers (1967).
Moscoso’s professional success as an artist came from his psychedelic rock posters. He quickly borrowed elements from comic books and commercials when creating posters, with his artworks going on to gain international attention at the 1967 “Summer of Love” event.What makes Moscoso’s works so unique is his use of vibrating colors, influenced by one of his art teachers from Yale University. Moscoso attempts to recreate the experience of a hallucinogenic trip through his color choices and goes on to use vibrant psychedelic colors to achieve the specific Psychedelic aesthetic captured by the movement.


links to research / sources
https://artincontext.org/psychedelic-art/ 
http://www.arthistory.net/psychedelic-art/
https://artblart.com/tag/victor-moscoso/  
https://www.metrotimes.com/detroit/20-great-posters-by-the-late-gary-grimshaw/Slideshow/2157088/2157094 
https://www.sfchronicle.com/art/article/Victor-Moscoso-had-to-unlearn-what-he-d-learned-10987731.php 
https://www.sfmoma.org/artist/victor_moscoso/ 
https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-news/wes-wilson-psychedelic-poster-artist-dead-obituary-945946/ 

images & other media (links or uploaded)
https://www.sfchronicle.com/art/article/Victor-Moscoso-had-to-unlearn-what-he-d-learned-10987731.php 
https://www.metrotimes.com/detroit/20-great-posters-by-the-late-gary-grimshaw/Slideshow/2157088/2157094
https://artblart.com/tag/victor-moscoso/ 
https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-news/wes-wilson-psychedelic-poster-artist-dead-obituary-945946/ 
https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Victor_Moscoso,_psychedelic_poster_and_comix_artist.jpg 
Peace Now print (poster format), between 1965 and 1975; Gemini Enterprises, publisher, Public domain, via Wikimedia Commons 
